- [Narrator] The JSON processing API
features a JSON generator as part of the streaming API.
It can be used to write JSON objects to an output source
in a streaming way.
Let's take a look as we work within our order resource
to use our JSON generator to build a new JSON object.
So I'm going to remove all pre-existing code
within this method
and then what we'll do is build a streamlined order object
that is generated using the JSON generator.
Now there's better ways to do this,
but it does give us a good experience
working with the JSON generator
so that we can see a lot of its features in action.
Now when we work with the JSON generator,
the first thing we need to do
is have some sort of output source.
In our case, that's going to be a string writer.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a new string writer
and then we can start to build our JSON generator.
So we'll create an object of type JSON generator
and I'm just going to name this 'generator'
and then just like the other objects,
we can create the generator from the JSON object
and it accepts a writer that we can provide
to that factory method
and we'll just go ahead and import our JSON generator type
and we're ready to start using it.
I will point out that, like the other interfaces,
it is using the AutoCloseable syntax
so it's very nice that it cleans up the resources for us.
All right, let's start writing some JSON.
So using the generator,
we start a JSON object
by using the right start object method.
And what I recommend is, any time you start an object,
you immediately write the closing tag.
It's very easy not to have these calls balanced out
and then you generate a faulty JSON object.
Once we've started our object,
we can begin adding properties to it.
Our first property's going to be the order ID
so we can get the order ID from our order
and then we're going to write another property
on the object and it's going to be the store name.
So we'll fetch the store name from the order
and next, we're going to go ahead and use our generator
to write the start of an array
and we can provide a property name for the array.
We're going to use items
so that we match up with our object model
and then we're immediately going to
write the end of the array
and then inside of the array,
we're going to use the 'for each' construct
and we're going to iterate through all of the items
on the order.
And then for each item in the order,
we're going to build a new object.
So let's create our start object,
then from here,
we can go ahead and write 'properties' on the object.
So the first property that we're going to put on the object
is the
name
of the item
and then we're going to add one more property from the object
and that is going
to be the quantity that was ordered.
Okay.
So there we have our item
and you'll notice I broke my own rule.
I almost did not write the end of the object
which would have caused an error
and then let's make sure we write the end of our array
and then we can proceed after that.
And we're going to add another object here
so we'll write the start of that object
and this time, we're going to give that object
a property name
so we're going to have a customer property
that has a value of an object
and then on that object,
we're going to add some more properties
and this is going to be the customer's first name
and then we can also go ahead, we'll add their last name.
You can see how verbose this is.
Now, it is very efficient
so if you have a lot of JSON to be processing,
this is definitely the best way to do it,
from a resource perspective.
And then let's write the end of that object
and then at this point, let's just do a sanity check
to make sure everything is closed out.
Okay, our JSON appears to be balanced out.
And now what we're going to do
is we're going to call the flush method on the generator
which will write the data out to the writer,
if it already hasn't,
and then we're going to use our JMS service
to pass
this
message,
or this JSON object,
to
our JMS queue.
Okay, so we'll do that by invoking the two string method
on the writer
and now we're ready to go ahead and run this application.
So let's spin up the console.
Then I'm going to go ahead and we'll clear the console out
so we can see our output.
Okay,
so
the
application is started.
Let's watch our console, I'm going to clear it out
so we can see our logging better.
Then we'll go ahead, we'll run our PowerShell test
and here we can see
our console output, let's go ahead,
take a look at what we got.
So here you can see that we got our paired down order,
we only received those items that we specified
as far as the properties on that JSON
that we've built with the JSON generator.
So that concludes our lesson on using the JSON generator
within the JSON-P streaming API.